README.md, before:

[![Test diagnostics](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ros/diagnostics/test.yaml?label=test&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/actions/workflows/test.yaml) [![Lint diagnostics](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ros/diagnostics/lint.yaml?label=lint&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/actions/workflows/lint.yaml) [![ROS2 Humble](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/humble/diagnostics.svg?style=flat-square)](https://index.ros.org/r/diagnostics/#humble) [![ROS2 Iron](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/iron/diagnostics.svg?style=flat-square)](https://index.ros.org/r/diagnostics/#iron) [![ROS2 Jazzy](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/jazzy/diagnostics.svg?style=flat-square)](https://index.ros.org/r/diagnostics/#jazzy) [![ROS2 Rolling](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/rolling/diagnostics.svg?style=flat-square)](https://index.ros.org/r/diagnostics/#rolling)

# Overview

The diagnostics system collects information about hardware drivers and robot hardware to make them available to users and operators.
The diagnostics system contains tools to collect and analyze this data.

The diagnostics system is build around the `/diagnostics` topic. The topic is used for `diagnostic_msgs/DiagnosticArray` messages.
It contains information about the device names, status, and values.

It contains the following packages:

- [`diagnostic_aggregator`](/diagnostic_aggregator/): Aggregates diagnostic messages from different sources into a single message.
- [`diagnostic_analysis`](/diagnostics/): *Not ported to ROS2 yet* **#contributions-welcome**
- [`diagnostic_common_diagnostics`](/diagnostic_common_diagnostics/): Predefined nodes for monitoring the Linux and ROS system.
- [`diagnostic_updater`](/diagnostic_updater/): Base classes to publishing custom diagnostic messages for Python and C++.
- [`self_test`](/self_test/): Tools to perform self tests on nodes.

## Collecting diagnostic data

At the points of interest, i.e. the hardware drivers, the diagnostic data is collected.
The data must be published on the `/diagnostics` topic.
In the `diagnostic_updater` package, there are base classes to simplify the creation of diagnostic messages.

## Aggregation

The `diagnostic_aggregator` package provides tools to aggregate diagnostic messages from different sources into a single message. It has a plugin system to define the aggregation rules.

## Visualization

Outside of this repository, there is [`rqt_robot_monitor`](https://index.ros.org/p/rqt_robot_monitor/) to visualize diagnostic messages that have been aggregated by the `diagnostic_aggregator`.

Diagnostics messages that are not aggregated can be visualized by [`rqt_runtime_monitor`](https://index.ros.org/p/rqt_runtime_monitor/).

# Target Distribution

- **Rolling Ridley** by the [`ros2` branch](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/tree/ros2)
- **Humble Hawksbill** by the [`ros2-humble` branch](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/tree/ros2-humble)
- **Iron Irwini** by the [`ros2-iron` branch](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/tree/ros2-iron)
- **Jazzy Jalisco** by the [`ros2-jazzy` branch](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/tree/ros2-jazzy)

# License

The source code is released under a [BSD 3-Clause license](LICENSE).

Commit message:

versioning info (#373)
Signed-off-by: Christian Henkel <christian.henkel2@de.bosch.com>

README.md, after:

[![Test diagnostics](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ros/diagnostics/test.yaml?label=test&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/actions/workflows/test.yaml) [![Lint diagnostics](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ros/diagnostics/lint.yaml?label=lint&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/actions/workflows/lint.yaml) [![ROS2 Humble](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/humble/diagnostics.svg?style=flat-square)](https://index.ros.org/r/diagnostics/#humble) [![ROS2 Iron](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/iron/diagnostics.svg?style=flat-square)](https://index.ros.org/r/diagnostics/#iron) [![ROS2 Jazzy](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/jazzy/diagnostics.svg?style=flat-square)](https://index.ros.org/r/diagnostics/#jazzy) [![ROS2 Rolling](https://img.shields.io/ros/v/rolling/diagnostics.svg?style=flat-square)](https://index.ros.org/r/diagnostics/#rolling)

# Overview

The diagnostics system collects information about hardware drivers and robot hardware to make them available to users and operators.
The diagnostics system contains tools to collect and analyze this data.

The diagnostics system is build around the `/diagnostics` topic. The topic is used for `diagnostic_msgs/DiagnosticArray` messages.
It contains information about the device names, status, and values.

It contains the following packages:

- [`diagnostic_aggregator`](/diagnostic_aggregator/): Aggregates diagnostic messages from different sources into a single message.
- [`diagnostic_analysis`](/diagnostics/): *Not ported to ROS2 yet* **#contributions-welcome**
- [`diagnostic_common_diagnostics`](/diagnostic_common_diagnostics/): Predefined nodes for monitoring the Linux and ROS system.
- [`diagnostic_updater`](/diagnostic_updater/): Base classes to publishing custom diagnostic messages for Python and C++.
- [`self_test`](/self_test/): Tools to perform self tests on nodes.

## Collecting diagnostic data

At the points of interest, i.e. the hardware drivers, the diagnostic data is collected.
The data must be published on the `/diagnostics` topic.
In the `diagnostic_updater` package, there are base classes to simplify the creation of diagnostic messages.

## Aggregation

The `diagnostic_aggregator` package provides tools to aggregate diagnostic messages from different sources into a single message. It has a plugin system to define the aggregation rules.

## Visualization

Outside of this repository, there is [`rqt_robot_monitor`](https://index.ros.org/p/rqt_robot_monitor/) to visualize diagnostic messages that have been aggregated by the `diagnostic_aggregator`.

Diagnostics messages that are not aggregated can be visualized by [`rqt_runtime_monitor`](https://index.ros.org/p/rqt_runtime_monitor/).

# Target Distribution

- **Rolling Ridley** by the [`ros2` branch](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/tree/ros2)
- **Humble Hawksbill** by the [`ros2-humble` branch](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/tree/ros2-humble)
- **Iron Irwini** by the [`ros2-iron` branch](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/tree/ros2-iron)
- **Jazzy Jalisco** by the [`ros2-jazzy` branch](https://github.com/ros/diagnostics/tree/ros2-jazzy)

# Versioning and Releases

- (__X__.0.0) We use the major version number to indicate a breaking change.
- (0.__Y__.0) The minor version number is used to differentiate between different ROS distributions:
  - x.__0__.z: Humble Hawksbill
  - x.__1__.z: Iron Irwini
  - x.__2__.z: Jazzy Jalisco
  - x.__3__.z: Rolling Ridley
  - Future releases (Kilted Kaiju 05/25) will get x.__3__.z and _Rolling_ will be incremented accordingly.
- (0.0.__Z__) The patch version number is used for changes in the current ROS distribution that do not affect the API.

# License

The source code is released under a [BSD 3-Clause license](LICENSE).
