diagnostic_common_diagnostics/README.md, before:

General information about this repository, including legal information, build instructions and known issues/limitations, are given in [README.md](../README.md) in the repository root.

# The diagnostic_common_diagnostics package
This package provides generic nodes to monitor a Linux host.

Currently only the NTP monitor is ported to ROS2.

# Nodes

## cpu_monitor.py
The `cpu_monitor` module allows users to monitor the CPU usage of their system in real-time.
It publishes the usage percentage in a diagnostic message.

* Name of the node is "cpu_monitor_" + hostname.
* Uses the following args:
  * warning_percentage: If the CPU usage is > warning_percentage, a WARN status will be publised.
  * window: the maximum length of the used collections.deque for queuing CPU readings.

### Published Topics
#### /diagnostics
diagnostic_msgs/DiagnosticArray
The diagnostics information.

### Parameters
#### warning_percentage
(default: 90)
warning percentage threshold.

#### window
(default: 1)
Length of CPU readings queue.

## ntp_monitor.py
Runs 'ntpdate' to check if the system clock is synchronized with the NTP server.
* If the offset is smaller than `offset-tolerance`, an `OK` status will be published.
* If the offset is larger than the configured `offset-tolerance`, a `WARN` status will be published,
* if it is bigger than `error-offset-tolerance`, an `ERROR` status will be published.
* If there was an error running `ntpdate`, an `ERROR` status will be published.

### Published Topics
#### /diagnostics
diagnostic_msgs/DiagnosticArray
The diagnostics information.

### Parameters
#### ntp_hostname
(default: "pool.ntp.org")
Hostname of NTP server.

#### offset-tolerance"
(default: 500)
Allowed offset from NTP host. Above this is a warning.

#### error-offset-tolerance
(default: 5000000)
If the offset from the NTP host exceeds this value, it is reported as an error instead of warning.

#### self_offset-tolerance
(default: 500)
Offset from self

#### diag-hostname
Computer name in diagnostics output (ex: 'c1')

#### no-self-test
(default: True)
Disable self test.

## hd_monitor.py
**To be ported**

## ram_monitor.py
The `ram_monitor` module allows users to monitor the RAM usage of their system in real-time.
It publishes the usage percentage in a diagnostic message.

* Name of the node is "ram_monitor_" + hostname.
* Uses the following args:
  * warning_percentage: If the RAM usage is > warning_percentage, a WARN status will be published.
  * window: the maximum length of the used collections.deque for queuing RAM readings.

### Published Topics
#### /diagnostics
diagnostic_msgs/DiagnosticArray
The diagnostics information.

### Parameters
#### warning_percentage
(default: 90)
warning percentage threshold.

#### window
(default: 1)
Length of RAM readings queue.

## sensors_monitor.py
**To be ported**

## tf_monitor.py
**To be ported**

Commit message:

refactor(sensors_monitor): ros2 port #339
thanks to https://github.com/reinzor

Signed-off-by: Christian Henkel <christian.henkel2@de.bosch.com>

diagnostic_common_diagnostics/README.md, after:

General information about this repository, including legal information, build instructions and known issues/limitations, are given in [README.md](../README.md) in the repository root.

# The diagnostic_common_diagnostics package
This package provides generic nodes to monitor a Linux host.

Currently only the NTP monitor is ported to ROS2.

# Nodes

## cpu_monitor.py
The `cpu_monitor` module allows users to monitor the CPU usage of their system in real-time.
It publishes the usage percentage in a diagnostic message.

* Name of the node is "cpu_monitor_" + hostname.
* Uses the following args:
  * warning_percentage: If the CPU usage is > warning_percentage, a WARN status will be publised.
  * window: the maximum length of the used collections.deque for queuing CPU readings.

### Published Topics
#### /diagnostics
diagnostic_msgs/DiagnosticArray
The diagnostics information.

### Parameters
#### warning_percentage
(default: 90)
warning percentage threshold.

#### window
(default: 1)
Length of CPU readings queue.

## ntp_monitor.py
Runs 'ntpdate' to check if the system clock is synchronized with the NTP server.
* If the offset is smaller than `offset-tolerance`, an `OK` status will be published.
* If the offset is larger than the configured `offset-tolerance`, a `WARN` status will be published,
* if it is bigger than `error-offset-tolerance`, an `ERROR` status will be published.
* If there was an error running `ntpdate`, an `ERROR` status will be published.

### Published Topics
#### /diagnostics
diagnostic_msgs/DiagnosticArray
The diagnostics information.

### Parameters
#### ntp_hostname
(default: "pool.ntp.org")
Hostname of NTP server.

#### offset-tolerance"
(default: 500)
Allowed offset from NTP host. Above this is a warning.

#### error-offset-tolerance
(default: 5000000)
If the offset from the NTP host exceeds this value, it is reported as an error instead of warning.

#### self_offset-tolerance
(default: 500)
Offset from self

#### diag-hostname
Computer name in diagnostics output (ex: 'c1')

#### no-self-test
(default: True)
Disable self test.

## hd_monitor.py
**To be ported**

## ram_monitor.py
The `ram_monitor` module allows users to monitor the RAM usage of their system in real-time.
It publishes the usage percentage in a diagnostic message.

* Name of the node is "ram_monitor_" + hostname.
* Uses the following args:
  * warning_percentage: If the RAM usage is > warning_percentage, a WARN status will be published.
  * window: the maximum length of the used collections.deque for queuing RAM readings.

### Published Topics
#### /diagnostics
diagnostic_msgs/DiagnosticArray
The diagnostics information.

### Parameters
#### warning_percentage
(default: 90)
warning percentage threshold.

#### window
(default: 1)
Length of RAM readings queue.

## sensors_monitor.py
The `sensors_monitor` module allows users to monitor the temperature, volt and fan speeds of their system in real-time.
It uses the [`LM Sensors` package](https://packages.debian.org/sid/utils/lm-sensors) to get the data.

* Name of the node is "sensors_monitor_" + hostname.

### Published Topics
#### /diagnostics
diagnostic_msgs/DiagnosticArray
The diagnostics information.

### Parameters
#### ignore_fans
(default: false)
Whether to ignore the fan speed.

## tf_monitor.py
**To be ported**
